HONEYBROOK — PLAYABLE WORLD V1 REVIEW BUILD
Working branch: honeybrook-cinematic-overhaul
Preview: https://honeybrook-playable-preview.onrender.com/
Main has not been merged. Visual approval remains the release gate.

The existing Honeybrook project and connected scenes are preserved.
15 locations now have illustrated canvas environments and in-world paths.
Articulated teddy bears have idle, walk, talk, work, sit and reaction poses.
Door and object interaction includes walking to the target before acting.
Harold walks continuously between mailboxes, stops to work, leaves at the edge
and returns from outside the frame. Talking pauses his route.
Benny pauses his cart while you make a cone.

11 optional animated town moments:
- Wally's cupcake situation
- The Hearthwell controller negotiations
- The Newberry arrival and later settling-in yard routine
- Three notes at Singing Pond
- Harold's breakfast delivery
- Harmony Hall rehearsal
- Big Mama's porch radar
- The apple avalanche at Town Square
- The creek's duck family
- A map page caught by the library breeze
- The technology center's very polite little robot

7 hands-on activities, plus the existing firefly-catching room:
Warm drinks, cupcake frosting, flower gardening, a welcome letter collected
and delivered by Harold, rotating map fragments, ice cream cones, and piano
notes with a remembered tune. No mandatory score, deadline or completion.

Atmosphere: animated water, tree sway, chimney smoke, rain, mist, fireflies,
automatic local time and a four-minute cycling day with gradual twilight.
Camera follows walking on narrow screens, frames stories and pans to the
Northern Edge's old arch. Reduced-motion settings limit camera zoom.
Audio is opt-in and synthesized locally: ambient layers, footsteps, birds,
door effects, story beats and piano tones. No external audio service.

World-first controls: a compact game HUD, optional town map and settings.
Mouse/touch path walking, arrow/WASD movement, Enter/Space interaction,
nearby interaction button, mobile walking pad, and Escape to leave activities.

Memory: scene and position, observations, story choices, flowers, cupcakes,
letters, favorite scoops and tunes persist in this browser's local storage.
This is browser-local memory, not a cross-device account or cloud save.
Mystery observations remain explicitly separate from confirmed conclusions.

Regression checks:
node --check app.js
node --check world-renderer.js
node --check world-story.js
node --check world-activities.js
node --check world-life.js
node --check world-shell.js
node tests/world-renderer.test.cjs
node tests/story-director.test.cjs
node tests/world-activities.test.cjs
node tests/world-life.test.cjs

Live Render testing covers game HUD and map, path travel, story controls,
optional activities, sound, atmosphere and persistence after reload.
Portrait camera geometry is regression-tested. Real-device mobile visual
approval is still needed; automated geometry checks are not device approval.

The illustrated style is the current approved direction. Environments use
code-drawn storybook art and articulated characters. Future richer artwork,
additional resident schedules and longer story chapters are expansion work;
this review build does not claim to finish every possible Honeybrook story.

Honeybrook can teach, entertain and challenge you. Honeybrook never requires
you to be productive to belong. The town continues while you do nothing.

NEWBERRY HOME EXPANSION
Welcome House now opens into a front room, kitchen and Bella's reading nook.
Interior doors animate before the room changes; every room has a return route.
Four optional home films show settling in, the kettle, shared reading and
Harold physically entering to deliver a welcome. Delivered letters remain
on the mantel. Existing outdoor mail delivery waits while the player is inside.
Curtains, the family photo, a jam snack and reading memories persist locally.
The room itself is restored when reopening the same saved house visit.
Keyboard, mobile walking, canvas interactions and accessible Look around
actions continue through the interiors. Low-frame-rate walking now uses
elapsed time, with a regression check at two frames per second.
Additional check: node tests/world-rooms.test.cjs

HEARTHWELL FAMILY HOME
The existing Hearthwell village location now opens into three connected rooms:
family room, Buddy's kitchen, and a music corner. Framed wall doors retain
the Bridgeview return route. Optional films stage the controller negotiations,
supper's bread inspectors, and a family singalong with walking cubs and props.
Plates, reading lamp setting and the latest twelve piano notes persist locally.
The five-key piano supports free play and replay without a score or assignment.
Sofa/chair actions physically approach and settle the player into the seat,
and seated bears have bent knees. Home visits do not require an activity.
The original Newberry house, village scenes and optional stories remain intact.
